# DynamicTransgenerationalPlasticity_SupplementaryMaterials

DYNAMIC TRANSGENERATIONAL PLASTICITY: ANCESTRAL DIETARY ALTERATIONS LEADS TO FLUCTUATING BODY COMPOSITION LEVELS AND FITNESS ACROSS FIVE SUBSEQUENT GENERATIONS IN DROSOPHILA MELANOGASTER

ABSTRACT:
Ancestral exposures can transgenerationally influence offspring phenotypic expression independent of offspring genotype. Yet, the broader implications of transgenerational inheritance remain unclear, partly due to temporal and design challenges of conducting such studies. As most transgenerational studies focus on effects of a single extreme exposure over minimal transgenerational timeframes (i.e. 2-3 generations), the consistency of responses between varying exposure magnitudes and the longer-term transgenerational inheritance trends are generally unknown, making it difficult to interpret their evolutionary value. Here, we document longer-term transgenerational offspring body composition and fitness effects of three different magnitudes of ancestral dietary sugar exposure. Interestingly, we show oscillating metabolite and fitness response patterns across five generations following ancestral exposure, and found that the direction of offspring response differs depending on the stressor magnitude. We also found that transgenerational responses differ between sexes. Although our results do not fit the commonly proposed explanations of transgenerational effects (i.e. anticipatory effects, or delayed or diminished inheritance), they do support a less commonly discussed idea of transgenerational compensation. Overall, these findings demonstrate the dynamic nature of transgenerational plasticity and highlight the need for additional complex transgenerational studies to help explain both the phenomenon seen, and the evolutionary role of transgenerational inheritance.


NOTES:
The "data" file contains all metabolite and fitness data obtained during this study. Notably, due to extraction procedure differences, different flies were used to measure sugar metabolites (i.e. glucose, trehalose, and glycogen) and fat metabolite (TAG, which are triglycerides). To normalize to fly weight, sugar.weight was used for sugar metabolites (as it represented the weight of the 4 pooled flies used to analyze sugars), and fat.weight was used for fat metabolites (as it represented the weight of the 4 pooled flies used to analyze fat).

The "Statistics.rmd" file contains the source code to all statistics conducted for this project. Notably, for each model within this .rmd file, the first letter corresponds to the measured variable (i.e. G = Glucose, T = Trehalose, Y = Glycogen, Ta = Triglycerides/TAG, F = Fitness). The second variable is a number, which corresponds to the generation (i.e. 0 = F0, 1 = F1...). The third variable corresponds to the sex (i.e. F = female, M = male). For example, G0F.Mod represents the Glucose, F0, Female model. Also of note, the plots were created with a different .rmd file; however the siginificance values shown on the plots reflect the calculations done from the "Statistics.rmd" file. Thus, although the plots show relative differences between controls and treatments in order to better show overall trends (i.e. where each sample is a percentage relative to the control mean for that given generation), significant statistical differences were calculated between controls and treatments using raw values, where all used calculations came from the Statistics.rmd file.

The Supplementary Tables folder contains all three supplementary tables for the article.
